# Resources
You will need these resources to work on your InDesign documents.

## What is here?

- book.indt
> This is the template for the first pages of the book. The page size is set to 129mm x 198mm. You can change the margins.

- play.indt
> This is another template to help you set up the play. It includes the style names for the various components of the play.

- frontcover.indt
> This is the InDesign template that gives you a single portrait document. This is to help you develop the ideas for the design of the front of the book.

- fullcover.indt
> This is the InDesign template that gives you a single landscape document with a back, spine and front. The spine width is based on a book with 200 pages. You can only guess the spine width for the initial design, since the number of pages will be finalised when you have completed the inner pages of the book. The weight of the paper will also be a factor in determining the spine width.

> The cover dimensions are calculated as follows:
- page height = 198mm
- page width = 129mm
- spine = 12mm
- overall cover dimensions 129x2 + 12 = 270mm x 198 mm

- samplePOD_template.indt
> This a sample template generated by Lightning Source. The spine width was calculated with reference to the chosen number of pages and the weight of the paper. We don't need to use this template; it is just here for you to see what LightingSource would expect from you if you ask them to create a print on demand copy.

- FullShakespeareCover.psd
> This Photoshop file is set up to help you visualise the front of the cover in isolation.

- shakespeare.dtd
>This is the DTD that defines the rules for the play text. The DTD shows the structure of a typical play with the following elements defined:

1. verseline
2. prose
3. act
4. scene
5. firstscene
6. location
7. stagedirections
8. character

These are just examples; view the DTD for a further understanding.
